# Non_motorists involved in traffic collisions in Montgomery county
The Dataset which I chose provides information on non-motorists (pedestrians and cyclists) involved in traffic collisions occurring on county and local roadways in Montgomery County. The Source for this Dataset is : https://data.montgomerycountymd.gov/Public-Safety/Crash-Reporting-Non-Motorists-Data/n7fk-dce5 . I found this data set while I was searching for data in data.montgomerycountymd.gov site where I searched for road accidents related data by typing ‘crash’ in the search tab. This data is completely free and accessible to anyone as it is an open source. This data is completely legal to access and accessing this data doesn’t violate any terms and conditions of service. I searched if someone has previously performed any EDA on this data but didn’t find any citations or any work related to this data. I searched in google, Kaggle and GitHub. This Dataset contains 3156 rows and 32 columns. The column names are 'Report Number', 'Local Case Number', 'Agency Name', 'ACRS Report Type’, ‘Crash Date/Time', 'Route Type', 'Road Name', 'Cross-Street Type’, ‘Cross-Street Name', 'Off-Road Description', 'Municipality’, ‘Related Non-Motorist', 'Collision Type', 'Weather’, ‘Surface Condition', 'Light', 'Traffic Control’, ‘Driver Substance Abuse', 'Non-Motorist Substance Abuse', 'Person ID','Pedestrian Type', 'Pedestrian Movement', 'Pedestrian Actions’, ‘Pedestrian Location', 'Pedestrian Obeyed Traffic Signal’, ‘Pedestrian Visibility', 'At Fault', 'Injury Severity’, ‘Safety Equipment', 'Latitude', 'Longitude', 'Location'. Each row represents each collision data recorded having data like whether the driver was under the influence of alcohol or whether the fault was with driver or with non-motorist etc. The dataset’s size is 1.29 MB. There are many Missing values in few columns and few columns which I will not be using for my analysis which I need to clean. I chose this dataset as I had few real life experiences related to road accidents so, I was curios to analyze this dataset to answer few questions like In how many cases the accidents happened due to drivers fault and in how many cases the fault was with the pedestrians. In how many cases the Accidents caused property loss and in how many cases people were injured, what are the names of the most accident-prone roads, Did the weather play a major role in causing the accidents, whether the non-motorists were under the influence of alcohol, whether the cyclists were involved more in the accidents or the pedestrians. Whether the people wearing dark clothes were injured more or light clothing. Which agency has reported more crashes.
